git-terminal.md: add commands to update a fork and change email (#5956)
tldr-pages/tldr: contributing-guides/git-terminal.md

> # Making a Pull Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Opening a Pull Request
```

[pr-howto]: ../CONTRIBUTING.md#submitting-a-pull-request
[commit-msg]: ../CONTRIBUTING.md#commit-message
[mass-changes]: https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pulls?&q=is:pr+is:merged+label:"mass+changes"

# Updating your fork

> Forks aren't updated automatically and in order to avoid merge conflicts it should be done manually. This is possible either via the GitHub web interface by pressing `Fetch upstream` and `Fetch and merge` or using Git in the terminal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Forks aren't updated automatically and in order to avoid merge conflicts it should be done manually and regularly. This is possible either via the GitHub web interface by pressing `Fetch upstream` and `Fetch and merge` on the fork or using Git in the terminal:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: An enter here is welcome.
```suggestion

```bash
```

Reviewer 2: The enter is mandatory I think. Good spot

git checkout main

> git remote add upstream git@github.com:tldr-pages/tldr.git # only run this if you don't already have the upstream remote for https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr.git

Reviewer: Though it's probably better to use SSH, not everyone will have SSH keys on GitHub, and HTTPS will always work.
```suggestion
git remote add upstream https://tldr-pages/tldr.git # only run this if you don't already have the upstream remote for https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr.git
```

git fetch upstream main
git rebase upstream/main
git push --force # not needed if you only want to update your local repository
```

# Changing the email of your last commit

> If you used an email for a commit, which isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you used an email for a commit, which isn't verified to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with

Reviewer: This suggestion doesn't make much sense — "added" is more correct here.

Reviewer 2: True, resolve, didn't read it correctly

> If you used an email for a commit, which isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with

Reviewer: Putting the comma after "commit" essentially makes the following clause ("which isn't added to your GitHub account") nonrestrictive, i.e., useful but not necessary to the main point.  

It's almost like putting "which isn't added to your GitHub account" in parentheses, e.g.:

```
If you used an email for a commit (which isn't added to your GitHub account) you can either add it ...
```

Since nonrestrictive clauses are only loosely joined to the subject they modify, they can be removed without greatly altering the sense of the sentence, i.e.:
```
If you used an email for a commit you can either add it ...
```
which makes no sense.

```suggestion
If you used an email for a commit which isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with
```

But I don't really like the way that sounds.  How about:

```suggestion
If the email that you used for a commit isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with
```

> If the email that you used for a commit isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with

Reviewer 4: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
If the email that you used for a commit isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with the following commands:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```bash
```
Same applies here

> git commit --amend --author="Name <new@email.com>"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
git commit --amend --author="Name <your.new@email.com>"
```

Reviewer: I would prefer something more like this: `new.email@example.com`

Author: ```suggestion
git commit --amend --author="Name <new.email@example.com>"
```

[pr-howto]: ../CONTRIBUTING.md#submitting-a-pull-request
[commit-msg]: ../CONTRIBUTING.md#commit-message
[mass-changes]: https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pulls?&q=is:pr+is:merged+label:"mass+changes"

# Updating your fork

Forks aren't updated automatically and in order to avoid merge conflicts it should be done manually and regularly. This is possible via the GitHub web interface by pressing `Fetch upstream` and `Fetch and merge` on the fork:

> ![Fetch and merge button in GitHub](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50295997/119873818-393e2000-bf25-11eb-8a0a-b804c293439b.png).

Reviewer 3: an extra line here please.
```suggestion

![Fetch and merge button in GitHub](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50295997/119873818-393e2000-bf25-11eb-8a0a-b804c293439b.png).
```

[pr-howto]: ../CONTRIBUTING.md#submitting-a-pull-request
[commit-msg]: ../CONTRIBUTING.md#commit-message
[mass-changes]: https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pulls?&q=is:pr+is:merged+label:"mass+changes"

# Updating your fork

> Forks aren't updated automatically and in order to avoid merge conflicts it should be done manually and regularly. This is possible via the GitHub web interface by pressing `Fetch upstream` and `Fetch and merge` on the fork:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forks of GitHub repositories aren't updated automatically. In order to keep your fork of the repository up-to-date with the latest changes and avoid merge conflicts, you should update it regularly.

There are two ways to update your fork.

1. Via the GitHub web interface.  Click `Fetch upstream` and then `Fetch and merge` on the fork:
```

Reviewer: This can be changed, I'm not entirely sure about it.

![Fetch and merge button in GitHub](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50295997/119873818-393e2000-bf25-11eb-8a0a-b804c293439b.png).

> Alternatively it can also be done using Git in the terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Using Git in the terminal:
```

```bash

> git checkout main
> git remote add upstream https://tldr-pages/tldr.git # only run this if you don't already have the upstream remote for https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr.git
> git fetch upstream main
> git rebase upstream/main
> git push --force # not needed if you only want to update your local repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git checkout main
git remote add upstream https://tldr-pages/tldr.git  # only run if you don't already have the upstream remote (check with "git remote -v")
git fetch upstream main
git rebase upstream/main
git push --force-with-lease  # not needed if you only want to update your local repository
```
`--force-with-lease` is better actually, https://stackoverflow.com/a/52823955/

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I like it.

Author: Why not use `` ` ` `` for `git remote -v`?

Reviewer: Well it's already in a code block, so it won't look great...

Author: Ah, forgot about that 😄

```

# Changing the email of your last commit

If the email that you used for a commit isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with the following commands:

```bash

> git commit --amend --author="Name <new.email@example.com>"

Reviewer: I think these are the best placeholders here, what do you guys think?
```suggestion
git commit --amend --author="Your Name <your.email@example.com>"
```

Reviewer: Why, exactly? I like "Your Name" because it makes it obvious that you can use your display name with spaces in.

Author: I like `Your name`, since it shows that you can use spaces, but I prefer `new.email`, so it's obvious that you shouldn't use the original email of the commit.

Reviewer: Updated.

> git push --force

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git push --force-with-lease
```

[pr-howto]: ../CONTRIBUTING.md#submitting-a-pull-request
[commit-msg]: ../CONTRIBUTING.md#commit-message
[mass-changes]: https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pulls?&q=is:pr+is:merged+label:"mass+changes"

# Updating your fork

> Forks of GitHub repositories aren't updated automatically. In order to keep your fork of the repository up-to-date with the latest changes and avoid merge conflicts, you should update it regularly.

Reviewer 5: In order to -> To

I feel "fork of ... repository" being so close to each other is a bit redundant. It can be inferred that the fork is of the repository as in the previous sentence, we say "Forks of GitHub repositories".

```suggestion
Forks of GitHub repositories aren't updated automatically. To keep your fork up-to-date with the latest changes and avoid merge conflicts, you should update it regularly.
```

This also reduces a 28 syllable clause to 19.

> There are two ways to update your fork.

Reviewer 5: I think it'd be better to somehow make clear the list is not exhaustive?
"There are two ways" literally states that there are a fixed number of methods, but there are actually far more than two.
The fact that we're just documented two common/convenient ways should be made clear in my opinion.

```suggestion
There are primarily two ways to update your fork.
```

```suggestion
Two ways that you can update your fork.
```

Author: But those are the only practical methods to update it as far as I know. So for a beginner the sentense is easier to read and someone who would want to do it another way prabably doesn't read the guide in the first place.

Reviewer 5: I'll concede and resolve the conversation.

Reviewer 5: I'll concede and resolve the conversation.

> 1. Via the GitHub web interface.  Click `Fetch upstream` and then `Fetch and merge` on the fork:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Via the GitHub web interface.  Click `Fetch upstream` and then `Fetch and merge` on the fork as shown below:
```

> 1. Via the GitHub web interface.  Click `Fetch upstream` and then `Fetch and merge` on the fork as shown below:

Reviewer 5: 2 spaces:

```suggestion
1. Via the GitHub web interface. Click `Fetch upstream` and then `Fetch and merge` on the fork as shown below:
```

> ![Fetch and merge button in GitHub](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50295997/119873818-393e2000-bf25-11eb-8a0a-b804c293439b.png).

Reviewer: I suppose this link is fine and will never break, but ideally we'd want to include this screenshot in the repository itself.  Perhaps in https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/tree/main/images?

Reviewer 3: The link never dies, Dan use that in the README of the popular https://github.com/dandavison/delta and rocks.

Reviewer: Yeah, that's a good point. 🤔

What about offline support then? 😉

Author: That convinced me, I'll include it in the repo.

Author: I can't really get this to work. I'm using the html `<img>` tag to insert the image, but if the image in `/images` it can't be found using `../images/image.png`. However if I put it in the root derictory it works with `../image.png`

Author: If I put it in the root derictery it works with `grip`, but not with `markdown-previewer`.

Reviewer 4: @marchersimon shouldn't need a HTML `<img />` here - the Markdown syntax should work fine?

Author: It works with neither. Also, we use `<img>` for the banner in the README.

2. Using Git in the terminal:

```bash
git checkout main

> git remote add upstream https://tldr-pages/tldr.git  # only run if you don't already have the upstream remote (check with "git remote -v")

Reviewer 6: I'm assuming this was meant to point to GitHub?
```suggestion
git remote add upstream https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr.git  # only run if you don't already have the upstream remote (check with "git remote -v")
```

git fetch upstream main

> git rebase upstream/main

Reviewer 5: It might be worth linking to a resource, or adding a comment for what a user should do if they have merge conflicts?

Reviewer 4: See also `git mergetool`; [Meld](https://meldmerge.org/)

Author: > It might be worth linking to a resource, or adding a comment for what a user should do if they have merge conflicts?

Sounds like a good idea. Could you suggest something? You prabably have far more experience with git than me.

Reviewer 5: I wouldn't make that assumption!

I assume GitHub docs might be the best way to go?
https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/addressing-merge-conflicts/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line

Author: Managing merge conficts in the command line isn't the easiest thing to do (especially for beginners), but sounds like the only choice we have. 

I'll add that link.

Author: Done (90336a3). I'm not sure about the wording though.

git push --force-with-lease  # not needed if you only want to update your local repository
```

# Changing the email of your last commit

> If the email that you used for a commit isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with the following commands:

Reviewer 5: We say "last commit" in the heading, but not switch to "a commit" in the text.
The commands below will only work for the "last" commit.

Also, I think it'd be better to say "email associated" rather than "email added"?

```suggestion
If the email that you used for the last commit isn't associated with your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of the commit with the following commands:
```

It might be nice to document how to change the email for a commit that isn't the last one. Could be worth documenting as well?

Author: Sounds good, but I don't really understand what `next_comit_to_amend` should be.

Reviewer 5: So imagine the following scenario.

| Git Hash | Author Email
|---|---
| A | sethi@tuta.io
| B | seth@falco.fun
| C | seth@falco.fun
| D | sethi@tuta.io
| E | seth@falco.fun
| F | seth@falco.fun

I need to update `C` and `E` to use my up-to-date email address, the rest are fine.

```bash
git reset A
git commit --amend --author="Seth Falco <seth@falco.fun>"
git cherry-pick B^..D
git commit --amend --author="Seth Falco <seth@falco.fun>"
git cherry-pick E^..HEAD
```

And now A and E both have the correct email address, and we're up-to-date with HEAD again... though kind of in a convoluted manner, to be honest. Much easier than using [git-filter-branch](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-filter-branch), though!

Author: Thanks, now I get it. (Amazing how much effort you put into your answers 😄)

I'll add that section and prabably also give an example.

# Updating your fork

Forks aren't updated automatically and in order to avoid merge conflicts it should be done manually and regularly. This is possible via either the GitHub web interface by pressing `Fetch upstream` and `Fetch and merge` on the fork or using Git in the terminal:
```bash
git checkout main
git remote add upstream https://tldr-pages/tldr.git # only run this if you don't already have the upstream remote for https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr.git
git fetch upstream main
git rebase upstream/main
git push --force # not needed if you only want to update your local repository
```

# Changing the email of your last commit

If the email that you used for a commit isn't added to your GitHub account, you can either add it [here](https://github.com/settings/emails) or change the email of your last commit with
```bash

> git commit --amend --author="Name <new.email@example.com>"

Reviewer 3: I think dots aren't allowed in all the email clients
```suggestion
git commit --amend --author="Name <new_email@example.com>"
```

Author: `new.email` is what @bl-ue suggested [here](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pull/5956#discussion_r631783099)

Author: Should I change it anyway?

Reviewer 2: dots are surely allowed, infact it seems to be the acceptable way to separate words

Reviewer 2: I agree with new.mail

Reviewer 2: This should be resolved.

# Updating your fork

Forks aren't updated automatically and in order to avoid merge conflicts it should be done manually and regularly. This is possible via the GitHub web interface by pressing `Fetch upstream` and `Fetch and merge` on the fork:

> ![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50295997/119611842-802ff680-bdfb-11eb-8033-1c61df777c30.png).

Reviewer 3: Please be a nice a11y guy and add the `alt` text to the image :grin: 

```suggestion

![Fetch and merge button in GitHub](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50295997/119611842-802ff680-bdfb-11eb-8033-1c61df777c30.png).
```

Reviewer: It might be nice to use a light theme in this image, because that's GitHub's _default_ color theme. 🤔

Reviewer 3: @bl-ue you're right, @marchersimon my suggestion has a screenshot with the default theme.

Author: I used my own screenshot, since I didn't really want to have my name eternalized 😄
